Hey church, it's a joy to be with you right now in the midst of all that is going on in our city.
And if you have a Bible, go ahead and grab it and open up to Romans chapter 15.
We are doing a series right now where we're talking about how we respond to this global pandemic with faith, hope and love.
Now last week we talked about love and this week we're going to talk about hope.
And we need this, right?
Because it's crazy right now.
It feels like the end of the world.
I mean, shelves are empty in the grocery stores.
People are buying guns and ammunition.
They're fighting over toilet paper.
I see people walking around with bandanas over their faces, like, or in a Western movie or something.
Like, it's just crazy.
It's chaos.
But of course, it's not just what's happening out there, right?
This has hit home.
for all of us in different ways.
I've talked with many of you throughout this week and I know that there's a lot of people in our church who are sick and they're scared.
Maybe they have the coronavirus.
I've talked with many people who are worried about their parents or their grandparents or those in their lives who are especially vulnerable.
And now that the city has closed down a lot of businesses, the physical illness has compounded to financial hardship for many.
So I've talked with people in our church who have lost jobs, they've lost work.
A lot of people have lost large amounts of money because of events or plans that they had that were canceled.
Some people are worrying about how they're gonna pay rent at the end of the month.
There are engaged couples who have had to cancel or postpone their weddings.
There's medical professionals who are putting themselves at risk daily.
And so with all of this going on, many people in our city are in despair.
They're wondering,
Is there any hope?
And so into that culture, I want to speak the truth of God's word.
And I want to read to you Romans 15 verse 13.
I'm just going to preach on this one verse.
We'll talk about the context around it, but I want to speak this truth of God's word into the very cultural chaos that we find ourselves in.
I'll read this verse for us and then I'll open this time in prayer.
It's Romans 15 verse 13.
It says this.
May the God of hope
Fill you with all joy and peace and believing so that by the power of the Holy Spirit, you may abound in hope.
This is God's word.
Let's pray together.
God, we pray that you would give us hope in the midst of all of this despair.
We pray that we would have eyes to see how the light shines in the darkness.
God, would you just show us yourself through the preaching of the word?
Would you reveal your character?
Would you show us your heart?
Would you show us your purposes and your plan?
And Lord, give us faith to trust in you.
We pray this in Jesus' name, amen, amen.
All right, well, what I wanna do is I wanna walk through this verse and I wanna be able to show you how the God of hope has given us a message of hope so that we can be a people of hope.
All right, so let's start with the God of hope and think of it like this.
Everyone's looking for hope, but let me ask you, what do you place your hope in?
Is it doctors, is it the government, is it financial security or career success, maybe money, maybe you place your hope and your own ability or even in your health?
Well, none of these are bad in and of themselves, but what do you ultimately place your hope in?
See, all these things I just mentioned, they can change overnight, but God is unchanging.
And that's why God is our only hope.
That's why I want to plead with you in this time.
Look to God.
Whatever you're going through, whatever you're struggling with, whatever you're experiencing, take that to the Lord and look to Him.
He is our hope.
I mean, listen, everything is being canceled.
We don't know what we can depend on anymore.
Events are being canceled, weddings are being canceled, professional sports are being canceled, concerts are being canceled.
All my plans for March and April have been canceled.
All your plans for March and April have been canceled, but let me remind you of this.
God's grace is not canceled.
God's mercy is not canceled.
God's faithfulness is not canceled.
God's goodness is not canceled.
God's love is not canceled.
God's promises are not canceled.
And God's plan is not canceled.
That's why he is our hope.
But we've got to understand what hope is.
Because I think we often use the word differently in our culture than the Bible uses it.
Hope is not naive optimism or wishful thinking.
That's how a lot of people use the word hope today when they say, I hope it doesn't rain tomorrow.
They're saying, I wish, I desire, but the Bible has a different understanding of hope.
Biblical hope is not naive optimism or wishful thinking.
It is an unflinching confidence in God's power to accomplish God's purposes in God's timing.
It's the refusal to despair because no matter how bad it looks, we remember how good God is.
And so in everything that's going on in your life and in this world, you can have an assurance that because of God, you are loved.
You are not alone and you will always be secure in his grip.
I mean, everything in this world is being shaken right now.
It feels like everything in our city is being shaken in your lives.
It feels like everything is being shaken up.
But remember that we are a part of a kingdom that is unshakeable.
If you have trusted in Christ, then you have a firm foundation.
And you can have this kind of unflinching confidence, not because it's rooted in you, but because it's rooted in God.
He's the God of hope.
And so this God of hope then gives us a message of hope.
Look at Romans 15, 13, once more.
It says, may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing.
Now, when he says you here, he's speaking to a church in Italy.
God wrote a letter to a church in Italy in the city of Rome.
They were probably gathering in houses just like you and I, but without internet and air conditioning.
But as they gathered in Rome, you need to understand that
This was a brutal place for Christians.
They were living in a pagan environment, ridden by plagues, where there was much persecution against followers of Jesus.
And into that difficult space, the apostle Paul says to them, may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace.
They can have joy and peace, even in those circumstances, and not just joy and peace.
He says, all joy and peace.
We should remember that Psalm 16 says in God's presence is the fullness of joy.
Philippians 4 talks about a peace that surpasses understanding.
And it's not just joy and peace.
It appears that hope then is a byproduct of these.
So if you think about what it says in verse 13 there, he says, the God of hopefully with all joy and peace and believing so that by the power of the Holy Spirit, you may abound in hope.
And so the joy and the peace that are a result of what God has done for you will increase your hope in what he will do for you.
But this joy and peace and hope, they all come as a result of what God has done for us by his grace in sending his son Jesus.
And that's clear in the verses leading up to verse 13.
This isn't just a generic message of hope.
No, it's hope that we have in Christ.
In verse eight, it talks about how Christ the king, our king became a servant to fulfill all of God's promises of salvation and to bring mercy to the nations as a display of the glory of God.
And I want you to understand there when it talks about the nations, that the nations there, it mentions Gentiles in there, but it literally means nations, nations like China,
like Italy, like Germany, like Iran, like the United States.
Christ came to bring joy and peace and hope to the nations.
And so this king who came as a servant then goes on in Romans 15 and it mentions four Old Testament promises fulfilled in Christ.
It's showing how it's this incredible story of God renewing his creation
And it culminates in Christ the king.
And the fourth of these Old Testament promises is one from Isaiah chapter 11 that says, in him, the Gentiles or the nations have hope.
And so listen, we don't get our hope and peace from the news headlines.
We get our hope and peace from God and the good news that he has sent his son.
Christ died on the cross for your sins.
and he rose from the grave so that you might have life.
This is the good news of God's grace.
He took our shame and we receive joy.
He took our pain and we receive peace.
He took our sin and we receive salvation.
Christ entered into our hopeless world so that our world can have hope in him.
But you need to understand that this good news of the gospel
of salvation, of new life, of peace, of joy in Christ.
It's received through faith.
That's why it talks about in verse 13, the joy and peace in believing.
And this faith is a trust in God.
It's a trust in God's promises.
It's a trust in God's character.
It's a trust that he is our hope.
To have faith means that when we look around in our circumstances,
and it doesn't feel like, or it doesn't seem like God is good, that we trust that God is good, that we trust that God is faithful.
When we look around in our circumstances and we wonder what God is up to, we remember God's promises, I will never leave you nor forsake you.
I will accomplish all of my purposes.
I'm renewing heaven and earth.
Faith is as trusting in God's promises.
That often means
not trusting in our own doubts, even in our own feelings, where we wonder what's going on, but we keep our eyes fixed on Christ.
It's not the quality of your faith that matters so much.
It's the object of your faith, and that is Christ.
And I want to call all of us to trusting the Lord in the midst of this time, where that's difficult.
Many of you are Christians and you've been a part of our church for a long time,
And as everything's being shaken up, your commitment has just shined through in all of this.
It's been so encouraging to see the church gather together and find creative ways of loving one another.
And so I just want to say to you as a church that your faith has shown.
It's evident to me, to our pastors, it's evident to the city.
And I'm proud of you.
I'm really grateful for our church in the midst of all of this.
But I also know that many are watching this right now.
who don't know Jesus.
They're not Christians.
And in the midst of this tragedy, they're looking for hope.
They're wondering what they can stand on as everything else is changing.
And so if that's you, if you're listening to this today, whether a friend invited you to a digital gathering or whether someone sent this to you or you stumbled across it online, whatever that is, I want you to hear that there is hope.
There is hope in Christ.
You were made for this to know God and love God and be known by God and be loved by God.
So put your hope in Jesus today and live for him.
There's peace and joy and hope even in times where everything is out of order and it's hard to know what's gonna happen next.
We know who God is.
We know his heart for us because he sent his son, Jesus.
So what we see in Romans 15, 13 is that we see a God of hope
who gives us a message of hope so that we can be a people of hope.
Now, I want you to notice here when it says in verse 13, so that by the power of the Holy Spirit, you may abound in hope.
I want you to notice that the you there in the original language of Greek, it's plural.
Paul is not saying this to individuals.
He's writing this to a community.
This is a letter that's written to the church in Rome.
And so he's talking to them together in this.
What they need to have the hope that they long for is they need God, but they also need each other in the midst of all of this.
Their abounding in hope is intricately woven to the depth of their relationships.
And you see this in the context.
Look in your Bibles at verses five and seven in Romans 15, just up ahead.
And it says this, Paul says to them,
May the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to live in such harmony with one another in accord with Christ Jesus that together you may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Therefore welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you for the glory of God.
So this is a command by God for us and it's gonna look different when we have social distancing and all of that
But we have to find creative ways to be able to do this, to endure, to encourage one another, to be at harmony with one another in accord with Christ Jesus.
Remember that in all of this, that the unity that we have, it's not in our ability to rally, it's not even in our beliefs, it's in Christ.
He is our unity.
And so I wanna call you to be community, to be the church in the midst of all of this.
Don't let physical separation mean relational isolation.
This is a time more than ever to bind together.
And that includes showing love and compassion, especially to those who are hurting right now.
A lot of people are hurting, they're struggling, and we're called to be a people of hope and peace.
But we also share in one another sorrow and bear each other's burdens.
We grieve.
And there's a lot to grieve right now.
There's a lot of loss.
People are experiencing loss.
But remember when it says in 1 Thessalonians 4, we grieve, but we do not grieve as those without hope.
We need to remember that this social distancing cannot keep us from the relationships that we were made for.
We've got to strive for unity.
We've got to build one another up in faith, in love, and in hope.
Because even in our suffering, we can abound in hope.
Don't you love that it says that in here?
It doesn't just say that God's people may have hope.
It says so that they may abound in hope.
And that's because we have a God of hope and God's not short on hope.
It's not like God is in heaven.
He's just got a drop here or there to give to us.
No, it's a downpour.
It's a flood of hope from the Lord.
And we are filled with God's hope, but it doesn't stay in us.
It spills over so that we're a people of hope to others.
And remember, we're literally talking about a supernatural hope.
This is not just some virtue that you need to muster up or that you need to try to have more hope in your life.
This is the power of the Holy Spirit making this hope abound in you.
And I think a biblical understanding of hope
is going to be an active hope.
It's not just sitting back and doing nothing and kind of wishing that God would do something.
No, it's an active hope.
And I want to acknowledge that that's going to look different for people in different situations right now in our city.
Some of you are quarantined.
And I want to say in the midst of that, don't waste the time that you have.
There's a difference between doing nothing and waiting patiently on the Lord.
Now take advantage of this time for prayer.
for solitude, to read scripture, to read good books, to connect with other people through digital mediums, don't waste the time that you have, have an active hope.
But I also want to acknowledge that for some of you, your hope is very different, that you're not quarantined.
In fact, it's the opposite.
In many ways, you're working tirelessly right now.
For many of you, because of
whether it's your job and what that requires of you or you have kids at home now throughout the day where you haven't had that and you're scrambling trying to figure it out.
I want to call you to hope in the Lord.
And as we talk about hope, I look around and there's a lot of hardship.
There's a lot of trials.
There's a lot of difficulty.
But I see that hope is rising.
I see people having hope in people in our church being a people of hope and the Lord working through them.
in little ways.
I mean, this last week I heard stories of people meeting the elderly people that are around them for the first time in their lives, neighbors or people in their apartment buildings.
I've heard of people in apartment buildings taking care of each other for the first time.
I've heard of people in our church buying toilet paper and driving it around and giving it to anyone that they needed have that.
There's
The good stuff of life goes on in the midst of this.
There were babies that were born this week.
There were couples that got married this week.
There's so much good that's going on that gives us reason for hope.
I mean, right now, I'm filming this in our office, which is right next to the Hope Center.
And the Hope Center is a space where I've heard person after person describe
The first time they came there is saying, I came here hopeless, having no hope.
And yet, people being able to say, but God did a work in my life that's turned me around.
And whether that's people getting off the streets or recovering from addiction or meeting the Lord or finding community and family for the first time, God is doing incredible works there.
We're getting to see it firsthand.
And I want you to know that because
What we need to do to be faithful in the midst of all of this is to stay home, to be careful, to practice social distancing, all of that.
But I also want you to know that we as a church are still serving this city in so many ways.
We've had to be really careful with the food ministry and we've made a lot of adjustments to make sure it's safe, healthy protocols and all of that.
We're giving away to go boxes, but we're still feeding the hungry.
Who else is going to feed them?
We're still loving the city in every way that we can.
So we would ask that you continue to pray and support however you can in that knowing that the Lord is doing a good work.
So I'm honestly excited in all this.
I believe that the Lord is at work, but I also want to say to you, I want to acknowledge as your pastor that there's a temptation for me and for others to say, well, it will be okay.
It'll all be fine.
It's almost over.
It's probably not going to get any worse.
But listen, we don't know that.
It might get better, it could get much worse.
And what I want for you is I want you to have a hope that can handle either one of those, whether it gets better or whether it gets worse.
You see this in Psalm 73, the attitude of the Psalmist, he says, first in verse 25, he says, who have I in heaven but you?
And there is nothing on earth that I desire besides you.
He's saying, God is my help.
God is who I ultimately look to.
But it's only when you have that kind of faith in God, like we see in verse 25, that then you can say what he says in verse 26.
He says, my flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever.
He's saying, I trust in God, I have faith in God.
I believe that God can do anything.
But even if my health fails,
Even if things don't work out the way that I want, I trust in God.
He is my hope.
That's the kind of hope that you can have, this unflinching confidence in God, knowing that he is with you and knowing that he is for you.
Now, I started off talking about how it feels like a strange apocalyptic time.
It feels like the end of the world.
Well, the Bible, of course, talks about the end of the world and it gives us hope.
not just for the end of the world, but for eternity.
And in Revelation 21, you have this beautiful picture of Christ enthroned over all of creation, saying, behold, I am making all things new.
I want to call you to look to Christ the King and put your hope in here, knowing that one day, because of God's grace, every disease will be healed.
Every wound will be bound up.
Every tear will be wiped away.
All evil will be banished.
Sin will be forgiven and creation will be made new.
In Christ, your future is guaranteed and it's better than you could ever imagine.
So may we put our faith in Him, our hope and our salvation.
Let's pray together.
God, we thank you that you are our hope.
that when we look to the things in our lives around us and they're failing, they're falling apart, they're letting us down, we can look to you and know that you are unfailing.
You are faithful.
You are at work in all of this.
God, we remember that you are a refuge.
You are a strong tower that we can run to for shelter in times of danger.
And so Lord, we look to you in all of this.
God, I pray that you would increase our faith
May we trust in you during this time.
We pray that you would teach us to love one another well, to support one another, to show your grace and your mercy to this city in ways that are wise and faithful and show your heart for the city, ultimately, Lord.
We love you and we love because you first loved us.
And so we give you all the glory in Jesus' name, amen.